when email was invented the first test
message sent read QWERTY I UOP complete
gibberish right but you see this
combination of letters every day just
glanced down at the top row of your
keyboard the letter still don't make
sense so why aren't the keys in
alphabetical order
well our journey starts before the 1870s
when all letters and notes were
handwritten the only alternative was the
printing press but it was used just for
books and newspapers people were getting
increasingly connected more letters were
being sent every day and a demand for an
efficient way of writing something was
becoming more urgent that's when the
invention of the typewriter changed the
world forever
the first prototypes actually had the
ABC lay out the first row showed the
second half of the alphabet and the
bottom had the first half but that led
to some technical problems because of
how typewriters work you press a key and
a little hammer with the corresponding
letter swings up and presses against a
ribbon with ink this leaves an imprint
of that letter on the paper the problem
was when typing got too fast the letter
hammers would get tangled and jam the
whole machine the solution randomized
the letters this helps slow the typing
down and it separated the most common
letter pairings so the W and H or SMT
would never meet again on the keyboard
when the typewriter was commercially
produced and launched for sale in 1874
the keyboard looked almost the same as
modern-day ones the only difference was
that the numbers 1 and 0 were left out
people use the capital I and O instead
the 0 was added pretty soon
while some keyboards didn't get a 1
until the 1970s but that theory doesn't
explain why the equally common pair E
and R stayed together or T and H are
still pretty close to each other
well another theory suggests that QWERTY
was invented to make it harder to learn
and adjust to the unfamiliar set up
besides selling the typewriter
companies were also selling training
courses
and a complicated keyboard setup made
sure the typist would need the course to
learn how to work only on that model now
try this type the word typewriter on
your keyboard did you notice anything
strange all the letters that make up the
word are in the top row was that a way
to immortalize the name of the invention
or maybe it was just a coincidence hmm
there's another theory for why we're
still using a seemingly random layout
while typewriters later became an
essential in all houses and workplaces
they were first used by telegraph
operators before the phone was invented
the telegraph was the fastest way of
communication using Morse code operators
could tap messages in mere seconds the
receiving side only heard dots and
dashes and had to transcribe the words
as fast as they were said say somebody
wanted to share their favorite YouTube
channel with their friends it would have
looked and sounded like this telegraph
operators found typewriters useful but
the alphabetical keyboard layout was too
ineffective and complicated for their
needs one theory suggests that QWERTY
evolved with time and direct feedback
from telegraph operators for example
Morse code had the letters E and the
combination s e were very similar so
they had to make a fast decision based
on the rest of the letters in the word
that's why the Z s and E are now placed
close to each other QWERTY is an old
legacy from the very first typewriters
but it's not the only echo from the past
that stuck around
most modern keyboards still have keys
like scroll lock system requests and
print screen scroll lock was made to
turn the arrow keys into Page scrollers
versus moving the cursor through a text
system request is a button used on the
first IBM computers to switch between
operating systems and print screen used
to be the fastest way to print images
from a computer with a smartphone and
Internet in our hands at all times who
does much printing on paper these days
now if you think the English language
standard
is hard to use I present to you the
French layout azerty to finish the
sentence with a period you need to hit
shift and semicolon you have to press
down and shift to access the numbers
also there's a key for a letter that
only occurs in one French word well one
of the most common letters is missing
good thing a new standard was released
in 2019 well good for French speakers
anyway the Turkish F is considered one
of the most efficient keyboard layouts
out there
they used a scientific method to measure
the most frequent letters and put them
in the most optimal place this way
typing was equally balanced between two
hands
still this super efficient
scientifically tested layout isn't the
most common for the Turkish language so
we no longer need to interpret Morse
code and modern computer keyboards don't
get jammed from overuse then why do we
still use the QWERTY layout simple it
became a standard for the English
language because we got used to it but
it's days could be numbered the new
layout standard might be the calc you
keyboard it features two four by four
key grids and was created specifically
for touchscreens on tablets and
smartphones you can already download an
app and use it on your devices today
then again we might ditch keyboards
entirely in the near future modern
touchscreens don't require us to press
individual buttons for each letter soon
we'll likely have a more efficient way
to type maybe
we'll simply swipe use hand gestures
voice dictation smart contact lenses or
even thoughts to type text messages to
our loved ones
I'll let you decide what you think would
be best down in the comments
[Music]